# Week 1

1. Image of a compact set is compact under a continuous function
2. None
3. $U \subseteq Y \subseteq X$. Then if $U$ is open in $Y$, and $Y$ open in $X$, then $U$ is open in $X$. An example where this doesn't hold is $X = \mathbb{R}$, $Y = [0,1], U = [0,1)$.
4. Any subspace of a Hausdorff space is Hausdorff
5. $(X,\tau_X)$, $Y = X/\sim$, and $q:X\to Y$ a quotient map, then $\tau_Y=\{U \in Y|q^{-1}(U) \in \tau_X\}$ is a topology.
6. Any composition of quotient maps is also a quotient map
7. $G$ a group, for any $g,h \in G$ the *commutator* is $[g,h] := ghg^{-1}h^{-1}$.
   The *commutator subgroup* $[G,G] \leq G$ generated by the set of all commutators $\{[g,h]: g,h\in G\}$. 
	- $[G,G]$ is trivial $\iff$ $G$ is abelian
	- $[g,h]^{-1} = [h,g]$
	- $[G,G] \trianglelefteq G$
	- $G/[G,G]$ is abelian (called *abelianisation*)
	- If $N \trianglelefteq G$ such that $G/N$ is abelian, then $[G,G] \subseteq N$.
8. None
9. $S$ finite and $S'$ infinite sets. Let $F,F'$ be free abelian groups on $S,S'$ respectively. Then $F \not \cong F'$.

# Week 2

1. $X,Y$ nonempty T.S, and $A \subseteq X$. $A \times Y$ is a retract of $X \times Y$ $\iff$ $A$ is a retract of $X$

2. $C$ a retract of $B$, $B$ a retract of $A$ $\implies$ $C$ a retract of $A$

3. Any convex subset $X$ of $\mathbb{R}^n$ deformation retracts to a point. Converse is not true.

4. Example of a deformation retraction of $\mathbb{R}^n\backslash\{0\}$ onto $S^{n-1}$. $F:\mathbb{R}^n \times [0,1] \to S^{n-1}$ such that $F(x,t) = (1-t)x + t\frac{x}{\|x\|}$.

5. a. Composition of homotopy equivalences is a homotopy equivalence. So homotopy equivalence is an equivalence relation
	 b. The relation of homotopy among maps $X \to Y$ is an equivalence relation.
	 c. A map homotopic to a homotopy equivalence is a homotopy equivalence

6. If $X$ deformation retracts to a point $x \in X$, then for each neighbourhood $U$ of $x$ in $X$, there exists a neighbourhood $V \subseteq U$ of $x$ such that $i:V \hookrightarrow U$ is nullhomotopic.
	
	**Tube Lemma:** $X,Y$ T.S. with $Y$ compact and $x_0 \in X$. For any open $W \subseteq X\times Y$ containing $\{x_0\} \times Y$, there exists $V \subseteq X$ such that $x_0 \in V$ and $V \times Y \subset W$.


6. $X$ a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^n$ consisting of $[0,1]\times \{0\}$ with all vertical segments $\{r\}\times [0,1-r]$ for $r \in [0,1]$ such that $r\notin \mathbb{Q}$. Then $X$ deformation retracts to any point ONLY on the segment $[0,1] \times \{0\}$, and NO WHERE ELSE.

	 If $Y \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$ such that $Y = \bigcup_{i=1}^\infty X$, then $Y$ is contractible but does not deformation retract to any point anymore.

7. TBD
8. TBD
9. TBD
10. TBD
11. TBD

